# 72-sarrahmerchant10-eon705-mobile

report goes here

MOBILE 

In deciding on the technologies we wanted to use to create the mobile app, the 3 technologies we decided to compare for the front-end production upon doing some research are React Native, Android Studio (Java) and Python. To begin, I am very familiar with java and python, and not so familiar with javascript, jsx and node.js, so the first two would take priority in this area. When looking at domains covered, Android Studio uses java for backend and has a pretty easy interface to deal with frontend, while React Native would allow for front and backend to be written in javascript. With the simplicity of this app, the benefits of python aren’t as beneficial. Python is however the second most popular language after rust, according to CoderRank. It is also used for very large social media apps such as Instagram and Youtube. Following this, java is the third most loved and used language and large corporations use Android Studio to build their android mobile app (i.e RBC). Javascript is the least popular language and is mainly used for web development. Finally, looking at the performance of the softwares, React Native allows one app to be deployed as both an ios and android app which can be highly convenient for corporations with limited funding. Android Studio is notorious for being slow to run apps, however has many frameworks for flexible usage. Python is easy to understand, interact and easy to implement, it is a programming language which is an elegant language and allows you to code the same program with much fewer lines than other languages. Considering the research above, Android Studio is the best fit as it is familiar, is a popular language and can have a quick UI build. 

Looking at softwares for backend development, the three softwares being compared are Google Firebase, Django and Express. Firebase gives you functionality like analytics, databases, messaging and crash reporting so you can move quickly and focus on your users. It is also built with java or python which are familiar languages. Django is known for its pragmatic design and ease of use and is a high-level Python Web framework encouraging rapid development. Express is another software which uses javascript, so it’s ease of use decreases. It does however ease the integration of databases such as MongoDB and mySQL. Firebase is not very popular according to CoderRank, while Django was the most popular python framework in 2016/2017 and Express being a subsidiary of Node,ja, it is also a very popular and loved software. In terms of productivity and scale, Firebase is built on Google infrastructure and scales automatically, for even the largest apps. It becomes an ideal choice when your application does not require heavy data processing or any form of complex user authentication requirements. Django is much more fully-featured than many other frameworks out there. It has Simple syntax, HTTP libraries and a Python unit test framework, however is mostly used for web development. Express.js framework allows you to use the same language which is JavaScript both on the back-end and front-end. It also had easy integration with miscellaneous templates such as EJS, Vash, Jade. Django is the best choice from the three as it has many functionalities, is written in a very familiar and is one of the most popular databases used. 


The 3 technologies we chose to compare for CI/CD are Jenkins, AppCircle, BitRise. Jenkins is commonly used with java products and is built with java, is easy to install and is free. Jenkins can also integrate with most development, testing and deployment tools. In terms of popularity, it has over 1 million users around the world and large canadian corporations such as RBC use it for their main android mobile app CI/CD services. AppCircle and BitRise are also commonly used with kotlin/java android builds, however these softwares are not free. AppCircle provides a fully automated environment to manage mobile app lifecycle end-to-end, it allows android deployment as well and has a centralized environment variables module, making it easier to incorporate other aspects of mobile development as well. BitRise is an open source software which can automatically configure your initial workflows where you can use java/kotlin, python and swift. BitRise is also good for cross-platform apps. Based on these comparisons, Jenkins seems like the best fit for this assignment and for myself, as it is built with java, easily configurable and the most popular and commonly used in the industry. 


The three databases we will compare are mySQL, MongoDB and PostgreSQL. Starting with mySQL, it is low maintenance, is known to be highly secure and overall SQL databases are more popular. SQL databases have more structured data, which is highly likely used in this assignment. MongoDB is a noSQL database, so the data will not be as structured as the other 2 SQL databases, however it can handle large unstructured data better than the other 2. Fields can vary from document to document - there is no need to declare the structure of documents to the system, as documents are self-describing. This is useful for larger-scale mobile apps that need lots of different forms of data. Finally, PostgreSQL is not as popular as mySQL, although is similarly a SQL database it uses more memory than mySQL.  It does although have table inheritance and function overloading and PostgreSQL handles concurrency better than mySQL. With this information, it seems clear that mySQL is the best fit for this project, as the data is not in large unstructured form and does not require as much memory, in addition is the most popular and commonly used in the industry. 

